docs: fiducial markers guide (#482)
aica-technology/api: docs/core/examples/guides/fiducial-markers.md

---
sidebar_position: 14
title: Fiducial Markers
---

import stagDetectorExample from './assets/stag-detector-example.png'
import stagMarkerDetection from './assets/stag-marker-detection.webm'

# Fiducial Markers

Different types of fiducial markers are used in robotics to provide precise 3D pose estimation and identification for cameras, enabling or improving robotic calibration and object manipulation.

AICA's `core-vision` package gives you the choice between using two commonly used markers, the STag and ArUco.

:::tip

Performing the [intrinsic calibration](./camera-calibration.md) of the camera improves the precision for fiducial marker detection and tracking.

:::

## Preparing fiducial markers

A fiducial marker is an object placed in the field of view of an image for use as a point of reference or a measure. STag and ArUco markers are two of the common types of fiducial marker systems used for real-time 6D pose estimation. This section explains how to obtain, download and print these markers.

### Obtaining markers

> - **ArUco marker:** ArUco markers can be generate online (e.g., from [here](https://calib.io/pages/camera-calibration-pattern-generator)), which permits choosing the dictionary, marker ID, and marker size. It can be then exported as PDF or SVG for printing.

Reviewer: I would prefer this link here: https://chev.me/arucogen/

> - **STag marker:** STag marker set should be obtained from the [STag project repository](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros) or the generator/reference files linked by the project. The [STag project repository for ROS](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros) is the other place to look for marker-generation assets. In practice, you’ll want to obtain the marker PDF/SVG or generate the markers from the project’s reference generator, then print them at true size.

Reviewer: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByNTNYCAhWbIV1RqdU9vRnd2Vnc?resourcekey=0-9ipvecbezW8EWUva5GBQTQ

Public google drive where the markers can be downloaded

Author: Since this link was already in the page I mentioned in the guide, I didn't provide it exclusively. But sure, it's better this way.

Follow-up question: is it better to delete the links for the **STag project repository**  and the **STag project repository for ROS** ? Or keep them and only add the **google drive** link?

Reviewer: Ah I didn't see that the repo links the drive as well. I think the repo can still be linked, but also see my comment below because the two links go to the same repository. So essentially we probably end up with two links, the drive and the repo

### Printing markres

After choosing the marker family, selecting the library/dictionary, and the marker ID, download it as PDF or SVG. Use the Actual size of the marker (100% scale) for printing, so the black border and marker geometry are not resized. Also it is recommended to print with high contrast and avoid compression artifacts.

If possible, print on a rigid and flat sheet of paper to reduce warping, since fiducial detection is sensitive to distortion. As another solution, you can fix the printed marker on a rigid surface, such as a piece of wood or carboard.

After printing, measure the marker’s outer dimensions and compare them with the intended size from the generator. This matters because calibration will be wrong if the marker size in the software does not match the physical print.

> This guide provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the ArUco marker follows a very similar process.

Reviewer: This sentence now seems to be a bit in the wrong place. Maybe up top would make more sense.

3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Moreover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the relevant inputs of the STag Detector.
4. Enable **auto-configure** and **auto-activate** on both components.
5. By selecting any of the components, you can find all the available component parameters in the right panel under Settings.
6. If an intrinsic camera calibration is performed prior to this, add the file path of the camera configuration file as a parameter to the **Camera Streamer** component.

By this point, you should have something like the following:

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagDetectorExample} alt="CameraStreamer configuration alongside STagDetector component" />
</div>

:::info

The Camera Streamer parameters are explained in the [CameraStreamer component guide](./camera-streamer.md).

:::

Let's go through the parameters of the STag Detector component:

- **Rate**: The rate parameter doesn't affect the behavior of the component as the detection process
  occurs on reception of a new image.
- **Bundle file**: The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration. This additional feature is described in a separate guide (coming soon).

> - **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we intend to be recognized. If any of these markers enters the camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate is set to **True**. This name should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.

Reviewer: This is still unclear IMO. Maybe it's worth making a separate section where the two predicates are explained in detail and where you can then elaborate how the value for this parameter influences the predicate.

Author: You mean having a separate section for explaining the 3 predicates of the STag Detector component?

Reviewer: Yes

- **Marker size**: Determins the side length of a square that specifies the marker in meters.
- **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. The allowed numbers are `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.

> - **Error correction**:

Reviewer: This is still missing?

Author: The problem is that there are no upper and lower limits defined for it. If the number is out of an (unspecified) range, the component doesn't work. 
I left it out on purpose to get to this issue. (But forgot to put a comment for it. Sorry)

Reviewer: It would be good to figure out what the limits are then. Like that we can also provide more insight what that parameter actually does.

Author: The lower limit in the code is 0, and the upper bound comes from the upstream STag library, in which the rule is:
`0 ≤ errorCorrection ≤ (libraryHD - 1) / 2`

With the default library value of 15, the maximum valid error correction is 7.

There’s one mismatch though.  In the file
`aica-technology/dynamic components/source/core_vision_components/extension_descriptions/core_vision_components_pose_detection_stag_bundle_registration.yaml`

and the file:

`aica-technology/dynamic-components/source/core_vision_components/extension_descriptions/core_vision_components_pose_detection_stag_detector.yaml`

 a minimum of 1 is indicated, while the code accepts 0.

```
- display_name: Error correction
parameter_name: error_correction
description: The error correction tolerance. Lower values are strict, higher values are more permissive
default_value: 7
parameter_type: int
validation:
range:
minimum: 1
```

Reviewer: `0 ≤ errorCorrection ≤ (libraryHD - 1) / 2` ah that is a shame that the error bounds depend on the library selection.. This is something we can't validate easily in Studio directly.

You could then open a PR on the relevant description files to set the minimum to 0 and also to set the maximum to `(23 - 1) / 2 = 11`. You could even improve the component implementation such that a detail ROS log is spit out when the error correction is too high for the given library.

Author: Is there a need to investigate ArUco as well?

Reviewer: As far as I can see, Aruco doesn't have an error correction parameter, so I think there is no need. Double check please.

# Fiducial Markers

Different types of fiducial markers are used in robotics to provide precise 3D pose estimation and identification for cameras, enabling or improving robotic calibration and object manipulation.

AICA's `core-vision` package gives you the choice between using two commonly used markers, the STag and ArUco.

:::tip
Performing the [intrinsic calibration](./camera-calibration.md) of the camera improves the precision for fiducial marker detection and tracking.
:::

This guide provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the ArUco marker follows a very similar process.

## Preparing fiducial markers

A fiducial marker is an object placed in the field of view of an image for use as a point of reference or a measure. STag and ArUco markers are two of the common types of fiducial marker systems used for real-time 6D pose estimation. This section explains how to obtain, download and print these markers.

### Obtaining markers

- **ArUco marker**: ArUco markers can be generate online (e.g., from [here](https://chev.me/arucogen/)), which permits choosing the dictionary, marker ID, and marker size. It can be then exported as PDF or SVG for printing.

> - **STag marker**: STag marker set can be either downloaded from [google public drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByNTNYCAhWbIV1RqdU9vRnd2Vnc?resourcekey=0-9ipvecbezW8EWUva5GBQTQ) or obtained from the [STag project repository](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros) or the generator/reference files linked by the project. The [STag project repository for ROS](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros) is the other place to look for marker-generation assets. In practice, you’ll want to obtain the marker PDF/SVG or generate the markers from the project’s reference generator, then print them at true size.

Reviewer: Link 2 and 3 are the same. Also, if you want to link to that repo, please do so with the ros2-devel branch: https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros/tree/ros2-devel

  As you can see in the screenshot below, the marker name specified in the `Marker selection` parameter is stag_1, but the marker recognized in the camera frame is stag_0, yet `Is any marker detected` predicate is set to **True**.

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagMarkerNumOne} alt="Is any marker detected at all" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

- **Is any selected marker detected**: If one or more marker names are indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter, and if any of them appears in the camera frame, this predicate with be set to **True**. If the names of none of the markers present in the camera frame is indicated as a parameter, this predicate will remain **False**.
  In the screenshot below the name of the marker appearing in the camera frame matches the name indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter.

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagMarkerNumZero} alt="Is any of the selected markers detected" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

- **Is a marker bundle detected**: If a registered group of markers is detected by the camera, this parameter will be set to **True**. Otherwise it will remain **False**.

> After setting up the proper parameters for Camera Streamer and STag Detector:

Reviewer: I think this could be in it's own section "Running the application" or something like that and we should attach the YAML content too

Author: true

# Fiducial Markers

Different types of fiducial markers are used in robotics to provide precise 3D pose estimation and identification for cameras, enabling or improving robotic calibration and object manipulation.

AICA's `core-vision` package gives you the choice between using two commonly used markers, the STag and ArUco.

:::tip
Performing the [intrinsic calibration](./camera-calibration.md) of the camera improves the precision for fiducial marker detection and tracking.
:::

This guide provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the ArUco marker follows a very similar process.

## Preparing fiducial markers

A fiducial marker is an object placed in the field of view of an image for use as a point of reference or a measure. STag and ArUco markers are two of the common types of fiducial marker systems used for real-time 6D pose estimation. This section explains how to obtain, download and print these markers.

### Obtaining markers

- **ArUco marker**: ArUco markers can be generate online (e.g., from [here](https://chev.me/arucogen/)), which permits choosing the dictionary, marker ID, and marker size. It can be then exported as PDF or SVG for printing.

> - **STag marker**: STag marker set can be either downloaded from [google public drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByNTNYCAhWbIV1RqdU9vRnd2Vnc?resourcekey=0-9ipvecbezW8EWUva5GBQTQ) or obtained from the [ROS2 STag project repository](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros/tree/ros2-devel) or the generator/reference files linked by the project. In practice, you’ll want to obtain the marker PDF/SVG or generate the markers from the project’s reference generator, then print them at true size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **STag marker**: STag marker set can be either downloaded from [public Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByNTNYCAhWbIV1RqdU9vRnd2Vnc?resourcekey=0-9ipvecbezW8EWUva5GBQTQ) or obtained from the [ROS2 STag project repository](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros/tree/ros2-devel) or the generator/reference files linked by the project. In practice, you’ll want to obtain the marker PDF/SVG or generate the markers from the project’s reference generator, then print them at true size.
```

### Printing markers

> After choosing the marker family, selecting the library/dictionary, and the marker ID, download it as PDF or SVG. Use the Actual size of the marker (100% scale) for printing, so the black border and marker geometry are not resized. Also it is recommended to print with high contrast and avoid compression artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After choosing the marker family, selecting the library/dictionary, and the marker ID, download it as PDF or SVG. Use the actual size of the marker (100% scale) for printing, so the black border and marker geometry are not resized. Also it is recommended to print with high contrast and avoid compression artifacts.
```

If possible, print on a rigid and flat sheet of paper to reduce warping, since fiducial detection is sensitive to distortion. As another solution, you can fix the printed marker on a rigid surface, such as a piece of wood or cardboard.

> After printing, measure the marker’s outer dimensions and compare them with the intended size from the generator. This matters because calibration will be wrong if the marker size in the software does not match the physical print.

Reviewer: The second phrase sounds a bit like the print absolutely has to be perfect in order for the rest to work. It's subtle but maybe I would go for something like this:

After printing, measure the marker's outer dimensions since those might still be different from the desired ones. The true physical size will be required below to ensure that the calibration is precise.

1. Remove the hardware interface that is included in new applications by default.
2. From the `Scene` menu, use the `Add Component` tab and look for the **Camera Streamer** and **STag Detector** components, either by searching
   or by manually going under the `Core Vision Components` menu. Add both of them to the graph.
3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Moreover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the relevant inputs of the STag Detector.
4. Enable **auto-configure** and **auto-activate** on both components.
5. By selecting any of the components, you can find all the available component parameters in the right panel under Settings.
6. If an intrinsic camera calibration is performed prior to this, add the file path of the camera configuration file as a parameter to the **Camera Streamer** component.

By this point, you should have something like the following:

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagDetectorExample} alt="CameraStreamer configuration alongside STagDetector component" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

:::info
The Camera Streamer parameters are explained in the [CameraStreamer component guide](./camera-streamer.md).
:::

> ## STag Detector predicates

Reviewer: You asked me about this and I couldn't give a good answer then but now I think the parameters section has to come first

</div>

- **Is any selected marker detected**: If one or more marker names are indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter, and if any of them appears in the camera frame, this predicate with be set to **True**. If the names of none of the markers present in the camera frame is indicated as a parameter, this predicate will remain **False**.
  In the screenshot below the name of the marker appearing in the camera frame matches the name indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter.

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagMarkerNumZero} alt="Is any of the selected markers detected" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

- **Is a marker bundle detected**: If a registered group of markers is detected by the camera, this parameter will be set to **True**. Otherwise it will remain **False**.

## STag Detector parameters

- **Rate**: The rate parameter doesn't affect the behavior of the component as the detection process
  occurs on reception of a new image.
- **Bundle file**: The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration. This additional feature is described in a separate guide (coming soon).

> - **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we intend to be recognized. If any of these markers enters the camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate is set to **True**. This name should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.

Reviewer: "we intend to be recognized" is wrong

- **Marker size**: Determines the side length of a square that specifies the marker in meters.
- **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. The allowed numbers are `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.
- **Error correction**:
- **Prefix**: This prefix is used for marker names.

:::tip

> If a decision needs to be made based on the existence of a specific STag marker in the camera frame, its name should be indicated in the `Marker Selection` parameter.

Reviewer: This tip feels a bit off here, if anything it could be explained in the predicates section.

Author: I displaced it to the parameter section, where I explained the `Marker selection` parameter. I feel it matches there better. Do you agree?

:::

:::info

> If any marker is detected in the camera frame at all, the `is_any_marker_detected` predicate is set to **True**.

Reviewer: This is now explained in the predicates section no?

Author: true

3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Moreover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the relevant inputs of the STag Detector.
4. Enable **auto-configure** and **auto-activate** on both components.
5. By selecting any of the components, you can find all the available component parameters in the right panel under Settings.
6. If an intrinsic camera calibration is performed prior to this, add the file path of the camera configuration file as a parameter to the **Camera Streamer** component.

By this point, you should have something like the following:

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagDetectorExample} alt="CameraStreamer configuration alongside STagDetector component" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

:::info
The Camera Streamer parameters are explained in the [CameraStreamer component guide](./camera-streamer.md).
:::

## STag Detector parameters

- **Rate**: The rate parameter doesn't affect the behavior of the component as the detection process
  occurs on reception of a new image.
- **Bundle file**: The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration. This additional feature is described in a separate guide (coming soon).

> - **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we want to recognize. If any of these markers enters the camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate is set to **True**. Also if a decision needs to be made based on the existence of a specific STag marker in the camera frame, its name should be indicated in this parameter. The markers name should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we want to recognize. If any of these markers enters the camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate will switch to **True** (see more in the section below). The marker names should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.
```

> - **Marker size**: Determines the side length of a square that specifies the marker in meters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Marker size**: The measured side length of the marker in meters.
```

> - **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. The allowed numbers are `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. Allowed options are `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.
```

> - **Error correction**: This parameter sets how permissive the detector is. Meaning it controls how many bit errors the STag detector is allowed to tolerate when decoding a marker ID. Lower values mean stricter matching, but detection would be less robust to blur, noise, bad lighting, or partial image degradation. Higher values mean more tolerant matching. The detector can still recognize a marker even if some bits are read incorrectly, so detection is more robust, but the risk of wrong matches increases. The lower and upper limits for this parameter are 0 and 11 respectively (inclusive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Error correction**: This parameter sets how permissive the detector is. It controls how many bit errors the STag detector is allowed to tolerate when decoding a marker ID. Lower values mean stricter matching, but detection would be less robust to blur, noise, bad lighting, or partial image degradation. Higher values mean more tolerant matching. The detector can still recognize a marker even if some bits are read incorrectly, so detection is more robust, but the risk of wrong matches increases. The lower and upper limits for this parameter are 0 and 11 respectively.
```

- **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we want to recognize. If any of these markers enters the
  camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate will switch to **True** (see more in the section below).
  The marker names should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.
- **Marker size**: The measured side length of the marker in meters.
- **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. Allowed options are
  `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.
- **Error correction**: This parameter sets how permissive the detector is. It controls how many bit errors the STag
  detector is allowed to tolerate when decoding a marker ID. Lower values mean stricter matching, but detection would be
  less robust to blur, noise, bad lighting, or partial image degradation. Higher values mean more tolerant matching. The
  detector can still recognize a marker even if some bits are read incorrectly, so detection is more robust, but the
  risk of wrong matches increases. The lower and upper limits for this parameter are 0 and 11 respectively.
- **Prefix**: This is the prefix used for marker names.

## STag Detector predicates

> - **Is any marker detected**: This predicate will be set to **True** if any marker is detected in the camera frame, even
>   though its name is not indicated in the 'Marker Selection' parameter. As you can see in the screenshot below, the
>   marker name specified in the `Marker selection` parameter is stag_1, but the marker recognized in the camera frame is
>   stag_0, yet `Is any marker detected` predicate is set to **True**.
> 
> <div class="text--center">
>   <img src={stagMarkerNumOne} alt="Is any marker detected at all" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
> </div>
> 
> - **Is any selected marker detected**: If one or more marker names are indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter,
>   and if any of them appears in the camera frame, this predicate with be set to **True**. If the names of none of the
>   markers present in the camera frame is indicated as a parameter, this predicate will remain **False**. In the
>   screenshot below the name of the marker appearing in the camera frame matches the name indicated in the
>   `Marker selection` parameter.
> 
> <div class="text--center">
>   <img src={stagMarkerNumZero} alt="Is any of the selected markers detected" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
> </div>
> 
> - **Is a marker bundle detected**: If a registered group of markers is detected by the camera, this parameter will be
>   set to **True**. Otherwise it will remain **False**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Is any marker detected**: This predicate will be set to **True** if any marker is detected in the camera frame, even
  though its name is not indicated in the 'Marker Selection' parameter. As you can see in the screenshot below, the
  marker name specified in the `Marker selection` parameter is stag_1, but the marker recognized in the camera frame is
  stag_0, yet `Is any marker detected` predicate is set to **True**.
  <div class="text--center">
    <img src={stagMarkerNumOne} alt="Is any marker detected at all" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
  </div>
- **Is any selected marker detected**: If one or more marker names are indicated in the `Marker selection` parameter,
  and if any of them appears in the camera frame, this predicate with be set to **True**. If the names of none of the
  markers present in the camera frame is indicated as a parameter, this predicate will remain **False**. In the
  screenshot below the name of the marker appearing in the camera frame matches the name indicated in the
  `Marker selection` parameter.
  <div class="text--center">
    <img src={stagMarkerNumZero} alt="Is any of the selected markers detected" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
  </div>
- **Is a marker bundle detected**: If a registered group of markers is detected by the camera, this parameter will be
  set to **True**. Otherwise it will remain **False**.
```
purely a formatting change here. By adding the indents before the image `<div>` elements, the images will have the same width as the enumeration. 

<img width="1077" height="355" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a8e70060-cfe9-4990-97a3-7762d4cd822e" />

Author: So the image being aligned with the text is the preferred format over the image being aligned with the bullet points?
Great. Got it :)

Author: Should other images be also shifted a tab to the right, or it only applies to those who are next to the bullet points?

Reviewer: I think the ones in enumerations only is better. The main point is that the images should look like they are part of the enumeration, not that they interrupt the alignment of the enumerations.

## Running the application

After setting up the proper parameters for Camera Streamer and STag Detector:

1. Press **Start** to start the application.
2. To see the live camera feed, select **Launch RViz** from the Launcher settings
3. In RViz, select _Add > By topic > /stag_detector/annotated_image > Image_. This adds a panel that shows the live
   image. The marker should be detected in the camera.

<div style={{ display: "flex", justifyContent: "center" }}>
  <video autoPlay loop muted playsInline style={{ maxWidth: "100%", borderRadius: "8px" }}>
    <source src={stagMarkerDetection} type="video/webm" />
    STag marker detection video.
  </video>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br></br>
```
This adds a bit more whitespace after the image

Author: Cool, the little space between them was bothering me a bit, but I thought it's normal to be that way.

# Fiducial Markers

Different types of fiducial markers are used in robotics to provide precise 3D pose estimation and identification for
cameras, enabling or improving robotic calibration and object manipulation.

AICA's `core-vision` package gives you the choice between using two commonly used markers, the STag and ArUco.

:::tip
Performing the [intrinsic calibration](./camera-calibration.md) of the camera improves the precision for fiducial
marker detection and tracking.
:::

This guide provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the ArUco marker follows a very similar process.

## Preparing fiducial markers

A fiducial marker is an object placed in the field of view of an image for use as a point of reference or a measure.
STag and ArUco markers are two of the common types of fiducial marker systems used for real-time 6D pose estimation.
This section explains how to obtain, download and print these markers.

### Obtaining markers

- **ArUco marker**: ArUco markers can be generate online (e.g., from [here](https://chev.me/arucogen/)), which permits
  choosing the dictionary, marker ID, and marker size. It can be then exported as PDF or SVG for printing.

> - **STag marker**: STag marker set can be either downloaded from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **STag marker**: STag marker sets can be either downloaded from

  [public Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0ByNTNYCAhWbIV1RqdU9vRnd2Vnc?resourcekey=0-9ipvecbezW8EWUva5GBQTQ)
  or obtained from the [ROS2 STag project repository](https://github.com/usrl-uofsc/stag_ros/tree/ros2-devel) or the
  generator/reference files linked by the project. In practice, you’ll want to obtain the marker PDF/SVG or generate the
  markers from the project’s reference generator, then print them at true size.

### Printing markers

> After choosing the marker family, selecting the library/dictionary, and the marker ID, download it as PDF or SVG. Use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After choosing the marker family, selecting the library/dictionary and the marker ID, download it as PDF or SVG. Use

   graph.
3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Moreover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the
   relevant inputs of the STag Detector.
4. Enable **auto-configure** and **auto-activate** on both components.
5. By selecting any of the components, you can find all the available component parameters in the right panel under
   Settings.
6. If an intrinsic camera calibration is performed prior to this, add the file path of the camera configuration file as
   a parameter to the **Camera Streamer** component.

By this point, you should have something like the following:

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagDetectorExample} alt="CameraStreamer configuration alongside STagDetector component" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
</div>

:::info
The Camera Streamer parameters are explained in the [CameraStreamer component guide](./camera-streamer.md).
:::

## STag Detector parameters

- **Rate**: The rate parameter doesn't affect the behavior of the component as the detection process occurs on reception
  of a new image.
- **Bundle file**: The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration. This additional feature is described in a

>   separate guide (coming soon).

Reviewer 2: Sorry maybe I missed a part of the discussion, where are we going to describe this?

Reviewer: either here or in a new document, I just think that now we should rather do the calibration page than spending too much time with the bundle feature because it's less common

Reviewer 2: Agreed, but I fear it will be forgotten quickly. I would be in favor of removing the note about it being described in a different guide and creating and issue for that.

Reviewer: Would you delete the entire lines 85 and 86 then or how?

Author: I don't know, to be honest. If I'm not mistaken, this sentence was suggested by @domire8 and I applied it. I didn't ask where, unfortunately.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, maybe i would just leave only the "The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration" sentence. And create an issue to remember to add to that.

- **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we want to recognize. If any of these markers enters the
  camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate will switch to **True** (see more in the section below).
  The marker names should always be prepended with the value of `Prefix`.
- **Marker size**: The measured side length of the marker in meters.
- **Library**: This is the ID number of the HD library utilized by STag markers. Allowed options are

>   `[11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23]`.

Reviewer 2: Nit, but there is something I don't like here. Both the "[]" and the highlight is a bit much I think. I would remove the "[]", there is no need to format this as a list.

  screenshot below the name of the marker appearing in the camera frame matches the name indicated in the
  `Marker selection` parameter.

  <div class="text--center">
    <img src={stagMarkerNumZero} alt="Is any of the selected markers detected" style={{ borderRadius: "8px" }}/>
  </div>

- **Is a marker bundle detected**: If a registered group of markers is detected by the camera, this parameter will be
  set to **True**. Otherwise it will remain **False**.

## Running the application

After setting up the proper parameters for Camera Streamer and STag Detector:

1. Press **Start** to start the application.
2. To see the live camera feed, select **Launch RViz** from the Launcher settings
3. In RViz, select _Add > By topic > /stag_detector/annotated_image > Image_. This adds a panel that shows the live
   image. The marker should be detected in the camera.

<div style={{ display: "flex", justifyContent: "center" }}>
  <video autoPlay loop muted playsInline style={{ maxWidth: "100%", borderRadius: "8px" }}>
    <source src={stagMarkerDetection} type="video/webm" />
    STag marker detection video.
  </video>
</div>

<br></br>

> The following YAML snippet contains the full application of the STag Detector above:

Author: Is the distance between this line and the video above it enough? They look like they're too close in my eyes.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine.

        on_configure:
          lifecycle:
            component: camera_streamer
            transition: activate
        on_load:
          lifecycle:
            component: camera_streamer
            transition: configure
    parameters:
      camera_info_path:
        value: /data/ost.yaml
        type: string
      undistorted_image_cropping:
        value: false
        type: bool
    outputs:
      image: /camera_streamer/image
      camera_info: /camera_streamer/camera_info
graph:
  positions:
    on_start:
      x: -60
      y: 0
    stop:
      x: -60
      y: 100
    components:
      stag_detector:
        x: 820
        y: 0
      camera_streamer:
        x: 200
        y: 60
  edges:
    on_start_on_start_camera_streamer_camera_streamer:
      path:
        - x: 100
          y: 60
        - x: 100
          y: 120
    camera_streamer_image_stag_detector_image:
      path:
        - x: 700
          y: 280
        - x: 700
          y: 260
    camera_streamer_camera_info_stag_detector_camera_info:
      path:
        - x: 660
          y: 360
        - x: 660
          y: 300
```

</details>

:::info
The process for using ArUco markers follows a similar process.

> :::

Reviewer 2: I would remove this part altogether, or rephrase. Repetition of "process", it's a bit much in the eye, two consecutive blue blocks, and you mention the same thing in line 23 either way.

Author: You're right. I'll rather remove it.

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    display_name: Camera Streamer
    events:
      transitions:
        on_configure:
          lifecycle:
            component: camera_streamer
            transition: activate
        on_load:
          lifecycle:
            component: camera_streamer
            transition: configure
    parameters:
      camera_info_path:
        value: /data/ost.yaml
        type: string
      undistorted_image_cropping:
        value: false
        type: bool
    outputs:
      image: /camera_streamer/image
      camera_info: /camera_streamer/camera_info
graph:
  positions:
    on_start:
      x: -60
      y: 0
    stop:
      x: -60
      y: 100
    components:
      stag_detector:
        x: 820
        y: 0
      camera_streamer:
        x: 200
        y: 60
  edges:
    on_start_on_start_camera_streamer_camera_streamer:
      path:
        - x: 100
          y: 60
        - x: 100
          y: 120
    camera_streamer_image_stag_detector_image:
      path:
        - x: 700
          y: 280
        - x: 700
          y: 260
    camera_streamer_camera_info_stag_detector_camera_info:
      path:
        - x: 660
          y: 360
        - x: 660
          y: 300
```

</details>

> >>>>>>> be81941 (some small final formatting changes)

Reviewer 2: Something left over here

---
sidebar_position: 13
title: Marker detection
---

import stagDetectorExample from './assets/stag-detector-example.png'
import stagMarkerDetection from './assets/stag-marker-detection.webm'

# Marker detection

Different types of markers are used in robotics to provide precise 3D pose estimation and identification for cameras, enabling or improving robotic calibration and object manipulation.

The AICA's `core-vision` package gives you the choice between using two of the most famous markers, the STag marker and the Aruco markers. 

:::tip

> It's important to notice that the marker detection should be done after the intrinsic calibration of the camera which is explained in the [calibration guide](./camera-calibration.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performing the [intrinsic calibration](./camera-calibration.md) of the camera improves the precision for fiducial marker detection and tracking.
```

:::

> The following provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the Aruco marker follows a very similar process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides an example of STag marker detection. Using the Aruco marker follows a very similar process.
```

## Using the STag detector

> 

Reviewer: Feels like this is missing a section where we explain how to obtain download and print markers. Having that, it will then also be easier to explain the marker size and library parameters

Author: True

Author: For the part that explains obtaining the markers, I'll just put links for their download or resource github page. I think puting more detailed instructions on how to actually do this is out of this documents scope, right?

Launch AICA Studio with a configuration that contains the `core-vision` package and create a new application.

1. Remove the hardware interface that is included in new applications by default.
2. From the `Scene` menu, use the `Add Component` tab and look for the **Camera Streamer** and **STag Detector** components, either by searching
or by manually going under the `Core Vision Components` menu. Add both of them to the graph.

> 3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Morover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the relevant inputs of the STag Detector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, connect both components to the start block. Moreover, connect the outputs of the Camera Streamer to the relevant inputs of the STag Detector.
```

4. Enable **auto-configure** and **auto-activate** on both components.
5. By selecting any of the components, you can find all the available component parameters in the right panel under Settings.

> 

Reviewer: You already had the tip above about the calibration, I think it's worth mentioning here that one should then not forget to add the filepath for it

By this point, you should have something like the following:

<div class="text--center">
  <img src={stagDetectorExample} alt="CameraStreamer configuration alongside STagDetector component" />
</div>

:::info

The Camera Streamer parameters are explained in the [CameraStreamer component guide](./camera-streamer.md).

:::

Let's go through the parameters of the STag Detector component:

> - **Rate**: This is the component's rate, but it has no effect on the operation of `STag Detector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Rate**: The rate parameter doesn't affect the behavior of the component as the detection process
    occurs on reception of a new image.
```

- **Bundle file**: 

> - **Marker selection**: The name(s) of the marker(s) that we intend to be recognized. If any of these markers enters the camera frame, the `is_any_selected_marker_detected` predicate is set to **True**. This name should always be prepended with `stage_`.

Reviewer: It is not correct to say that the name should be prepended with `stag_` right? It should be prepended with the value of "Prefix"

Reviewer 2: This might have been my bad, did not check before making the suggestion.

> - **Marker size**: 

Reviewer: This is easy, one needs to measure the size of the printed marker

Author: @domire8  Could you pls help me with the correct definition of the `Bundle file`?

Author: > This is easy, one needs to measure the size of the printed marker

I don't get what you mean! Which parameter?

Reviewer: Let's ignore bundle files for now it would be slightly out of scope. It will require its own section.

I mean parameter `Marker size`

Author: Oh yeah, Marker Size is obvious. It was left empty mistakenly.

But should I omit `bundle files` from the list?

Reviewer: I think we could write something like
```
Bundle file: The filepath to a predefined marker bundle configuration. This additional feature is described in a separate guide (coming soon)
```
